
# Verilog for beginners

Verilog is a programming language that describes hardware. There are two aspects of Verilog usage:

1. **RTL level:** Describe code to implement FPGA or ASIC devices as an hierarchy of modules and contents of these modules. This verilog code is constrained by what FPGA/ASIC compilers can digest. Usually this level of description is called RTL (register transfer level).
2.  **TestBench level:** Code to implement testing verification environment for the RTL modules. This level of code can use any construct of verilog or systemverilog. It is not limited by physical limitations.

## RTL example
Here is an example of basic RTL module: It is counter that can count up when enabled.

**module upcounter (input clk, input rst_n, input enable, output [7:0] cout);**

**logic [7:0] count;**

**always @(posedge clk or negedge rst_n) begin**
    **if (!rst_n) begin**
        **count <= 0;**
    **end else if (enable) begin**
        **count <= count + 1;**
    **end**
**end**

**assign cout = ~count;**

**endmodule**

- **module** is keyword stating description of a new module started. It is finished by keyword endmodule
- In RTL there are no global variables or reference to anything outside module.
- **logic [7:0]**  is a way to declare wires and flops. This is new way to let tools decide which is which. Before that we used (and still use)   **wire** and **reg** keywords.
- **[7:0]** tells us that this 8 bit bus. Unlike "C", the width of the bus comes before it's name.
- **always** keyword starts always block description. The **@** letter tells us when always block is activated. In this case every time clk goes up or rst_n (negative reset) goes down.
- **begin / end** : in "C" it would have been "{" and "}"
- count <= 0;  This statement tells that when "rst_n" is low (or falling to be low) , count is forced to known value "0";
-  otherwise is "enable" is high, count will be incremented on every positive edge of "clk".
- clk, rst_n and enable are inputs from the outside world that control this module.
- cout (8 bit vector) reflects the value of counter to the outside world.
- assign statement means that all times cout will have negated value if count.  

## Some more points
- in verilog most logical arithmetic operators follow "C" (or rather "C" follows verilog).   
   assign out =  aa && bb && !cc;
   logic [7:0] rout = (aa[3:0] + bb[7:4])>>1;
- busses are defined like logic [31:0] somebus;   to reference part of the bus,   bb[7:4] is written, signifying partial bus, in "C" it would be written like :   (bb>>4) & 0xf
- literals in verilog are decimal, bunary or hexa numbers.  The language asks to specify also the width of the literal:
  **8'hff**   is 8 bit (all ones) 255 value
  **10'b10101010**  is ten bit binary value (leading zeroes can be skipped)
  **25, `h33f**    : literal without width is assumed to be 32 bits wide. 
- in **always** blocks with edges, all assignments are to flops and assignments to flops must be "**<=**"  .  like   **next_value <= old_value << 1;**
- there is in SV (system verilog new invention)  **always_ff**  - it exactly identical to always with edges. Stupid. It just allows to check that.

 
