
# Test bench verilog
Bugs are one feature of RTL code.
Our task is smash them.
The way to debug this code, is to build debug environment that instances the DUT (device under test).
This debug code is free from RTL constraints.

module tb;

logic clk; 
logic rst_n;
logic enable;
logic [7:0] cout;

upcounter dut (.clk(clk),.rst_n(rst_n),.enabled(enable),.cout(cout));

initial begin
    rst_n = 0;
    enable = 0;
    #100;
    rst_n = 1;
    #100;
    enable = 1;
    #200;
    enable = 0;
    #100;
    $finish;
end

always begin
    clk = 0;
    #5;
    clk = 1;
    #5;
end

always @(negedge clk) $display("count is %d",cout);

initial begin
    $dumpvars(0,tb);
end

endmodule


## Points: 
1. module keyword again. But top level enironment should not  have input/outputs.
2. definition of all wires in here. same as RTL.
3. instance of the dut:  the instance source is "upcounter". the instance name is "dut".   instance name can be same as it's module. my preference is to have the name as dut.
4.  connections to the instance are by name :   .PIN(SIG)  : Pin is internal (input/output) wire name, Sig is logic defined in current module. (tb)
5. initial begin /end.   Run once in the beginning of the simulation. 
6. #100;    is wait here for hundred timepoints (usually in nanoseconds). Only after 100 ns proceed to the next statement.
7. all assignments here are using "=" (not "<=") because we are in testbench. 
8. "always begin" - only one copy of this always (or any other always) is executing at any time. So this always is in fact a loop that takes 10 ns to roun one round.
9. last form of always is   "always @* begin"   it means "start executing statements in this always, when ANY REFERENCED SIGNAL is changing. And this always os not already executing.
10. $finish; is system call telling the simulator to exit.
11. $display(...)  is system call that prints something to the terminal.  It follows "C" conventions. ( %h instead of %x).
12. $dumpvars(0,tb); is system call to create waves file. This file allows us to inspect simulation results after $finish;

## More points to discuss
1. difference between "=" and "<=" assignments. 
2.  always kinds
    always_comb begin
    always @(*) begin
    always_ffi (posedge clk) begin
    always @(posedge clk) begin
3. timscale 1ns / 1ps  : setting timing units. Especially for #17 (numeric delay)
4. Any bit can have any of these four values:   1'b0, 1'b1, 1'bx, 1'bz
    'bz is when wire is not driven anywhere.
    'bx  is unknown value (either contention or not initialized flop or logic gate (assign) where one of the support set is unknown).
        in most cases z or x in RTL indicats a bug.

5.  in real life the testbench should include golden model of the DUT, to verify correct behaviour by presenting the same inputs to golden model and DUT, and comparing the outputs. Otherwise manual inspection of waves is needed.



