
# python driven verification

## steps
1. locate Python.h file in python instalation or in /../include/
   it can be any python version, better python3.12 and above.
   write down the location of this file.
2. locate libpython3.12.so or libpython3.12.dyld  files.  
   write down the location of this file.
   it can be in something like /usr/lib/....

3. if #1 or #2 cannot be found, install full version of python3.12 (including development package, which holds the above files.

4. goto to vlsistuff/python-verilog/vpi3  directory. There is **README.md** file that tells this same story.
5. copy vpi3.setup to my_vpi3.setup
6. edit my_vpi3.setup to reflect Your system. specifically replace with locations of Python.h and libpython...
7. source my_vpi3.setup
8. run ./comp_linux

if all goes well (and it usually has bumps) You are ready to simulate with python. 



9. **for icarus:**
9.1. source my_vpi3.setup
9.2. run ./comp3_icarus



## running icarus simulation

1. **iverilog -o tb.vvp -g2012 -f all.rtl.files tb.v** 

​       Compilation looks something like this. It creates tb.vvp executable.

2.  **vvp  -M/Users/iliagreenblat/vlsistuff/python-verilog/vpi3 -mvpi3_local -lver.log tb.vvp +SEQ=$1**

running actual simulation. **tb.v** is shallow testbench. It will look for **verilog.py** file locally. This **verilog.py** can import all the verification environement.



- commercial simulators   have examples in vlsistuff/python-verilog



## how python driven verification works.  

- read  PDFS in vlsistuff/python-verilog/
